# Fuel-Monitoring-System
In this project, fuel monitoring system, we have used different components to create a communication path between the vehicle, the owner and another independent GSM node which can act as the supplier of the fuel. In this system, we track and monitor the fuel level of the fuel tank with the help of different components. We have inserted a Bluetooth module, a GSM module and arduino in the project. The Bluetooth is a wireless technology standard for exchanging data from fixed and mobile devices and building personal area networks (PANs). The Bluetooth module is responsible for sending live notifications of the fuel level to the vehicle owner’s mobile phone. The task of sending live notification to the mobile phone is done with the help of an application that is ardutooth. This application sends and receives data directly on Smartphone via Bluetooth. The other module that is GSM module is used in the project to establish communication between the GSM/GPRS system and computer system, in our case, it is the smartphone. It also requires a SIM that is Subscriber Identity Module. It is the user equipment that communicates with the mobile network. The GSM modem in our project sends out message notification to the registered mobile number about the level of fuel in the tank. This registered mobile number can act as the provider of the fuel. Along with these modules, other components like transistor BC547, buzzer, capacitor, resistor, LED, bridgewave rectifier, diodes and 7805 IC are also used for the building of the project. This work of Fuel Monitoring System is an initial step for better fuel management and also becomes the scope of our work. The data collection with sensors and also by implementing the micro controller is done at different speed range and also with different load condition. Based on the inference from the collected data suggestions are made for better utilization of the fuel. Equation has been developed between the economic factor and its influencing factors like load and speed. In future we hope that this engine performance monitoring will be highly helpful for automation.
